README.md, before:

# Dockerize: Python Application

This is a development environment. Please read the docs before using live.

## Nginx reverse proxy

Nginx config can be found here:  `nginx\nginx.conf`

## Django + Gunicorn

1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

3. [Pull](https://github.com/Axiomvp/docker-nginx-gunicorn-django.git) files from git.

4. Copy your Django app to the `'app'` directory, ensure the `manage.py` is accessible: `app/manage.py`

5. Add any additional requirements to `Pipfile`

6. Run: `[bash/powershell]$ docker-compose build`

7. Run: `[bash/powershell]$ docker-compose up -d`

## Database

This should be changed if you are not using Postgres. Update the login details in the docker-compose file below `environment`


## Additional configuration


### traefik 

[install and configure](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/providers/docker/) the traefik server.

Simples config for local dev env provided below:
```
version: "3"

services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik
    container_name: traefik
    command:
      - --log.level=DEBUG
      - --providers.docker=true
      - --providers.docker.exposedbydefault=false
      - --api.dashboard=true
      - --entrypoints.web.address=:80
      - --entrypoints.websecure.address=:443
    ports:
      - 80:80
      - 443:443
    labels:
      - traefik.enable=true
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.rule=Host(`localhost`) && (PathPrefix(`/api`) || PathPrefix(`/dashboard`))
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.service=api@internal
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.middlewares=auth
      - traefik.http.middlewares.auth.basicauth.users=(add your own basicauth hash here)
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
```

Add the following labels to the nginx config in docker-compose file, you no longer need to bind the ports of the nginx server.
```
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.docker.network=somenet"
      - "traefik.http.routers.entrypoints=web"
      - "traefik.http.routers.nginx-frontend.rule=Host(`app.localhost`)"
      - "traefik.http.services.nginx-frontend.loadbalancer.server.port=80"
```

Commit message:

use podman in prod k tnx

README.md, after:

# Dockerize: Python Application

NOTE! This is a development environment. In production podman could be something to consider.

## Nginx reverse proxy

Nginx config can be found here:  `nginx\nginx.conf`

## Django + Gunicorn

1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

3. [Pull](https://github.com/Axiomvp/docker-nginx-gunicorn-django.git) files from git.

4. Copy your Django app to the `'app'` directory, ensure the `manage.py` is accessible: `app/manage.py`

5. Add any additional requirements to `Pipfile`

6. Run: `[bash/powershell]$ docker-compose build`

7. Run: `[bash/powershell]$ docker-compose up -d`

## Database

This should be changed if you are not using Postgres. Update the login details in the docker-compose file below `environment`


## Additional configuration


### traefik 

[install and configure](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/providers/docker/) the traefik server.

Simples config for local dev env provided below:
```
version: "3"

services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik
    container_name: traefik
    command:
      - --log.level=DEBUG
      - --providers.docker=true
      - --providers.docker.exposedbydefault=false
      - --api.dashboard=true
      - --entrypoints.web.address=:80
      - --entrypoints.websecure.address=:443
    ports:
      - 80:80
      - 443:443
    labels:
      - traefik.enable=true
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.rule=Host(`localhost`) && (PathPrefix(`/api`) || PathPrefix(`/dashboard`))
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.service=api@internal
      - traefik.http.routers.dashboard.middlewares=auth
      - traefik.http.middlewares.auth.basicauth.users=(add your own basicauth hash here)
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
```

Add the following labels to the nginx config in docker-compose file, you no longer need to bind the ports of the nginx server.
```
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.docker.network=somenet"
      - "traefik.http.routers.entrypoints=web"
      - "traefik.http.routers.nginx-frontend.rule=Host(`app.localhost`)"
      - "traefik.http.services.nginx-frontend.loadbalancer.server.port=80"
```
